Nurdup is a small island
about 10 to 15 minutes by boat
from the Panama mainland.
Life on these islands is simple,
though this one
in particular is special.
Even though the island
only has 24 inhabitants,
7 of them,
along with 5 from other islands,
attend the only congregation
of Jehovah’s Witnesses in the region.
Buna Tejada is one of them.
Though until very recently,
she could neither read nor write.
I wanted to learn about the Bible,
even though I didn’t know how to read.
My parents didn’t send me to school,
but my brother taught me a little.
I felt that books spoke to people,
but to me they were speechless.
My teacher even said
that books could talk.
But I was never able to hear them.
When I saw people
going to the Kingdom Hall,
I thought:
‘These meetings look good.
I should go too.’
I knew that no one would say:
“Why are you here?
You won’t understand anything.”
That’s why I started
going to meetings,
and I’ve never stopped since.
Sometimes it’s difficult.
But I know if I miss a meeting,
I will feel bad.
So even if I can only listen,
I still go.
Some people don’t like
to see you progressing.
They say, “Buna thinks she’s a man
—always with her books.”
Even one of my brothers,
who has since passed away,
used to tell me the same.
At first, I felt ashamed
reading in front of others,
and sometimes I still feel ashamed.
So I would wait until
I was alone at night before I read.
But I did not always understand.
I needed someone to help me
—to encourage me and explain
what I was reading.
At first,
there was only material in Spanish,
so that’s all I had.
I don’t speak Spanish.
So I didn’t understand anything,
and nobody could explain to me
in Guna what was written.
It was like a secret.
I really appreciate
what I’ve learned about Jehovah.
If I didn’t know about him,
I would be like everyone else.
Studying the Bible has helped me
to understand right from wrong.
When the videos are in Guna,
I can understand them very well.
I love that the videos encourage
Guna speakers
to attend the meetings.
I have seen that preaching
from door to door makes you happy.
When I think about it,
I would like to be able
to preach more freely, like others do.
But we’re very isolated here,
and it is hard to leave this island.
When I see pictures of the Paradise,
I want to be there.
I want to survive and live there.
In the future,
the earth will be a paradise.
There is no doubt at all!
This motivates me to learn more.
I really want it to reach my heart.
Thanks to the efforts of our brothers
in translation offices,
even those with little or no education
can grasp Bible truths
and come to know God.
Jehovah’s organization
cares for us all,
even the little ones.
I want to be among
those taught by Jehovah
and this organization.
By the work they do,
I can see that Jehovah cares
—even for me.